
The National Archives
(c) crown copyright
Catalogue Reference:k e:KV/4/193
Image Reference:66
354
other elder statesmen on whom the Ainbassador
can count. Me are absolutely determined to
dupport the Ambassador in his mise and experience
handling of the matter. T Dont diverge from
these explieit instructions for thicn L take
full responsibility. the Ambassador is to be
uprorted". This was followed by another
telegram say ing "LeT me know how many tanks
there are in Egypt and alestine, including the
Workshops. they need not all be battle-wor ortay
Ps in most cases the work they may have to do Nil
will only be street demonstrations. Three or
four camps of about 50 each, adequately guarded,
should come into being in the next week or so,
say near the Py ramids, Abbassia and other places
herethe cannot fail to oe noticed. Interested
enquirers should be told that large-svale exer-
cises are intended in the near future. Let me
know what you cin do. Please don't t talk ik in
terms of dozens of battalions. bet me know also
about the RAF available. They rill not be
needed except to buzz around.
By the 25th April the political crisis seemed to
be over as the King had agreed to allow the
Nahas Govt. to continue in pover.
a
On the 28th april it was reported that/fresn
Crossbow ski-sites had been found at Belhamelin
in the Cherbourg Peninsula. This site appeared
to be orientated towards Bristol. Repains to
ski-sites have proceeded at a much faster rate
during the past 6 Weeks than formerly. Three
supply sites are now strueturaliy complete, 5
verynearly complete and 2 at a less adv need
stage of completion. As regards the large sites,
Catalogue Reference:KV/4/193
355
Siracourt has made specially rapid progress and
construction is actively continuing at Sottevast,
Watten, Wizernes and Mimoyecques.
Dick,TAR and had a long diceussion about
Guyer. While e all felt outraged by Sis'a
intervention and the way it nad been done, we
felt that whatever vere done ve could not render
him more popular in SiS circies. It S there-
fore difficult for us to attempt to force in
on S-AEF even if we got Section V to withdraw
their objections.
RSS h ve carried out an extensive test to dis-
cover the GARBO ransmitter. The report on
this exercise is very distressing. The GARBO
camoufly ge blan commenced on the 13th warch
but the M.U.S. were not told to commence their
investig tions till 14th April. From 13/3 to
14/4 GARBO'S transmitter Nas on the air (and
the perator was listening) for a total Of 29
hours, an averag of one hour per day. On the
14th April the V.U.S were brougnt into action.
They reported that the GARBO tr ansmitter opera-
ted for 44 hours between 14th and i9th April
inclusive. In fact it operated for over
63 hours and it would seem that the second
frequency of the transmitter vas not recorded
at all. On the 15th April GARBO transmitted
for 2 whole hours. This incident shakes my
confidence completely in the powers of RSS of
detecting illicit wireless either in this
country or any where else. It is disturbing since
the impression was given to the indlater Stevart
Committee and sub se uently to the Cabinet taat
no illicit transmissions vere likely to be undete
Catatogue Reference.kV/4/193 Reference is not the case...
